Introduction

In this project, you will learn how to use various tools to perform penetration testing on a vulnerable web application, OWASP Juice Shop. OWASP Juice Shop is a deliberately insecure web application created for educational purposes. This project helps you understand common web vulnerabilities and how they are tested ethically in a controlled lab environment.

Pre-requisites

Basic understanding of web application concepts (HTTP, HTTPS, web servers)

Familiarity with the command line interface (CLI)

Basic knowledge of web technologies (HTML, JavaScript, etc.)

Lab Set-up and Tools
Diagram

Simple network diagram for the lab setup:

+------------------+      +----------------------+
| Attacker         | <--> | Vulnerable App       |
| Kali Linux       |      | OWASP Juice Shop     |
| 192.168.1.100    |      |                      |
+------------------+      +----------------------+

Tools

Kali Linux: Penetration testing Linux distribution

OWASP Juice Shop: Vulnerable web application

Burp Suite: Web application security testing tool

Installation
OWASP Juice Shop Setup

Install and run OWASP Juice Shop using Docker:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker.io
sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker


Pull the Juice Shop image:

sudo docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop


Run the container:

sudo docker run -d -p 3000:3000 bkimminich/juice-shop


Access the application at:

http://localhost:3000

Tasks
Task 1: Identify Open Ports

Step 1: Open a terminal on Kali Linux
Step 2: Scan the OWASP Juice Shop server

nmap 192.168.1.100


Expected Output: List of open ports on the target server.

Task 2: SQL Injection

Step 1: Open Burp Suite
Step 2: Configure browser proxy to 127.0.0.1:8080
Step 3: Intercept a login request and test for SQL injection
Expected Output: Successful authentication due to SQL injection vulnerability.

Task 3: Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

Step 1: Locate a reflected input field (e.g., search bar)
Step 2: Inject an XSS test payload
Expected Output: Script execution confirming XSS vulnerability.

Task 4: File Upload Vulnerability

Step 1: Navigate to a file upload feature
Step 2: Upload a malicious test file
Expected Output: Ability to upload and access the file, indicating weak validation.

Task 5: Directory Traversal

Step 1: Intercept a request using Burp Suite
Step 2: Modify parameters to attempt directory traversal
Expected Output: Access to files outside the web root.

Task 6: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

Step 1: Create a test HTML form that performs an authenticated action
Step 2: Load the form while logged in
Expected Output: Action executes without explicit user consent.

Additional Resources

OWASP Juice Shop Documentation

Burp Suite Documentation

PortSwigger Web Security Academy

Kali Linux Documentation
